## June 15, 2020

#### To Do
- [x] Connect marker to story
    - [x] Explore Mapbox `addSource` and `addLayer`

> 5:54 PM

Updated the story card a bit. Replaced the reporter's name with the publication source. Took my cue from The Economist and Google News page. Thinking about chanding the date since it read mm/dd/yy now and as far as I know only the US writes it like that. Maybe I'll update to day month, year later.

Created a new branch to test adding a feature layer to the map. If I can add the markers this way, then I don't need to run a `For Each`. I'm already using GeoJSON, so maybe I can just load it once and create the markers and also get the story data with a click from there?

Resources:

- [Make a heatmap with Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/help/tutorials/make-a-heatmap-with-mapbox-gl-js/)

> 10:44 PM

`map.addLayer` method, as far as I can tell, can't be used to add markers. It can be used to add ([Maki][https://labs.mapbox.com/maki-icons/]?) icons right onto the map. This is cool, but I wan't markers since this is what most users are used to seeing.

The [Add custom markers in Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/help/tutorials/custom-markers-gl-js/) tutorial makes me think that I need to use `forEach` when creating HTML markers from the geoJSON file.

```javascript
// add markers to map
geojson.features.forEach(function(marker) {

  // create a HTML element for each feature
  var el = document.createElement('div');
  el.className = 'marker';

  // make a marker for each feature and add to the map
  new mapboxgl.Marker(el)
    .setLngLat(marker.geometry.coordinates)
    .addTo(map);
});
```

> 1:09 AM

Don't know if this is the best way to do this, but I'm setting the story div id to the title of the news story. That is how I'm tying the marker and the story together. I'm adding a click eventListener to each marker and I'm having the function replace the story id with `story-focus`, which changes the color of the chosen story.

```javascript
marker.getElement().addEventListener('click', () => {
  let storyFocus = document.getElementById(title);
  storyFocus.setAttribute('id', 'story-focus');
});
```

This is problematic because it completely replaces the id, and the story is forever focused. Next step is to figure out a better way to do this.

Read up on [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events)

> 1:20 AM

`mouseenter` and `mouseleave` work! Good stopping point.

Tomorrow's tasks:

- Clean up code
    - CSS: marker and popup
    - Data: storiesSmall.geojson
    - JS: Function
- Focus and scroll to story when marker is clicked
- When mouse hover over story, change the color of the marker